# Random Numbers

## Generating a random number
We have a built-in random module/library we can use with Python.  
`import random`  

```
# Let's generate a random floating point number
print(random.random())
```

!!! note "Random Numbers"

    When generating a random number, just know they are truly not randomized. In the back end, it's using a formula that can reproduce these numbers Pseudo-random(1).      
    - You can reproduce the same "random" numbers using a seed. A seed is a number you can choose for the algorithm to create the sequence of random numbers, if you choose the same seed number, the same random numbers will appear.  
    { .annotate }  

    1. "Pseudo" in Pseudo-random means "not actually, but having the appearance of." Internally, the random module has an equation to compute the next "random" number from the previous one, (invisibly) keeping track of the previous one. For the first call to any random method, no previous random number exists, so the method uses a built-in integer based on the current time, called a seed, to help generate a random number. Since the time is different for each program run, each program will get a unique sequence.  


## Random numbers between a range
In the statement below, we are telling Python, produce 3 random values and make it a range starting from 0.  
0, 1, 2 <- are 3 values. If we go up to 3 (0, 1, 2, 3) then we are saying produce 4 random values.  
`print(random.randrange(3))`

## Defined ranges

`randint(min, max)` returns a random integer between min and max inclusive.  

- Returns a random integer between 12 and 20 inclusive  
`print(random.randint(12, 20))`  

`randrange(min, max)` returns a random integer between min and max - 1 inclusive.  

- Returns a random integer between 12 and 19 inclusive  
`print(random.randrange(12, 20))`  