# Objects   

!!! quote "Zybooks Glossary"

    object:
    An object represents a value and is automatically created by the interpreter when executing a line of code. For example, executing x = 4 creates a new object to represent the value 4.  

    garbage collection:
    Deleting unused objects is an automatic process called garbage collection that frees memory space.  

    Name binding:
    Name binding is the process of associating names with interpreter objects. An object can have more than one name bound to it, and every name is always bound to exactly one object. Name binding occurs whenever an assignment statement is executed, as demonstrated below.  

**Objects:**
Used to represent everything in a Python Program (Integers, strings, functions, lists, etc.)

Below works as an example. We assign a emoji to a variable.  
  
```
# Technically we are assigning a string!
x = '🦖'
print(x)
```

**Garbage Collection:**
Deleting unused objects is an automatic process.  

**Name Binding:**
Process of associating names with interpreter objects. An object can have more than one name bound to it.

!!! info " "

    So when we assign a variable `ImBabyTRex = '🦖'`, we are essentially creating an object ImBabyTRex.  
    The name has been bound.  

## Object Properties
Objects has three defining properties.  
- **Value:** such as 'Hi Im Baby', 13, '13', etc.  
- **Type:** The type of the objects, what is the format? Integer, string, etc?  
- **Identity:** Unique identifier that describes the object.  

```
x = '🦖'

# Lets show the value
print(x)

# Lets show the type
print(type(x))

# Lets show the identity
print(id(x))
```

!!! note " "

    print(), type(), and id() are all python built in functions.  
    Meaning, these functions are always available and do not require you to import libraries.  