# Numeric Types: Floating-point  

## Float  
**Floating-point Number:**
A real number like 13.01, -55.23, or 0.00001  

- The term floating-point refers to the decimal point appearing anywhere ('floating') in the number. 

**float:**
A data type for floating-point numbers.  

**A floating-point literal:**
Written with the fractional part even if that fraction is 0, as in 1.0, 0.0, or 99.0.  

!!! info " "  

    Scientific Notation is another way to write a float. It uses the "e" to let you know how far you move the "." over.  
    0.003 is the same as **3.0e-3**(1)  
    { .annotate }

    1. *The -3 tells you to move the decimal to the left ⬅️, while a positive number moves the decimal point to the right ➡️*

!!! abstract "float()"   

    You can use the **float()** function to convert your value into a float if possible.  
    - You can't convert 'Hi' into a decimal.  

## Integer
We also have whole numbers or integer formats. (A number without a decimal)  

!!! abstract "int()"   

    You can use the **int()** function to convert your value into an integer if possible.  
    - You can't convert 'Hi' into an integer. 

## Overflow
Float-types have a limit to how "long" your decimal can be.  

- For Python 32 bit installations, the longest float is 1.0e308 or 1.0e-308 (You have 307 zeros, that's a lot)

!!! question "What happens when your float is too long?"

    **Overflow Error:**
    When a value is too large to be stored in the memory allocated by the interpreter.

## Formatting Floats
It's not ideal to work with long float formats. You are hurting the eyes of your veteran peers.  

Lets format the floats for readability. We do this with string formats, which we will talk more about this later.

```
# Essentially we convert the float to a string and format it to make it look pretty.
print(f'{13.12345: .2f}')
```  

!!! warning " "  

    Notice you don't see any commas in floats or integers.  
    This is because they are not allowed in integer/float format. Once you add commas, it will no longer be recognized as a number.  